
The lds program generates and displays a sequence of curves or 
cellular automata like figures which graphically represent the 
evolution of a Lattice Dynamical System (LDS). An LDS is an array
of cells, each of which represents a dynamical system. Each cell
is coupled to its nearest neighbors. The dynamical systems available
in this software package are currently the logistic map, circle map
and tent map. The state of each cell in the LDS is a real number in
the unit interval. The evolution of the lattice is determined by an
iteration thru the specified dynamic (e.g. the logistic equation)
followed by a weighted averaging with its nearest neighbors.

Command line arguments and run-time keyboard input allow lds to simulate
a wide variety of lattice dynamical systems. The user can specify the
dynamic to be used, the non-linearity parameter, the strength of coupling,
the initial conditions, the size of the array, the lenght of the run,
whether and how to evolve connection strengths, and more. During the run,
the display of the evolving LDS can either be CA-like with each generation
being represented as a horizontal line evolving upward in the window or as
points or a curve with X axis the lattice and Y-axis the cell states [0,1].
In addition, graphical display of cell states can be toggled between actual
state and phase difference with left neighbor. A site histogram curve can 
also be displayed.

Lattice dynamical systems are also referred to as coupled map lattices.
The literature is sparse but includes the following excellent papers :

"Lyapunov Analysis and Information Flow in Coupled Map Lattices" by
Kunihiko Kaneko, Physica 23D (1986) 436-447

"Spatiotemporal Chaos in One- and Two- Dimensional Coupled Map Lattices"
by Kaneko

"Spatiotemporal Chaos and Noise" by Gottfried Mayer-Kress and Kaneko,
J. Stat. Phys.(1988)

"Pattern Competition Intermittency and Selective Flicker Noise in
Spatiotemporal Chaos" by Kaneko, Physics Letters A, V125, 1 (1987)

"Pattern Dynamics in Spatiotemporal Chaos" by Kaneko (1987)

"Phenomenology of Spatial-Temporal Chaos" by Jim Crutchfield and Kaneko,
appearing as a chapter in "Directions in Chaos" edited by Hao Bai-lin,
World Scientific Publishing (1987)

"Robust Space-Time Intermittency and 1/f Noise" by James Keeler and Doyne
Farmer, Physica 23D (1986) 413-435

For further info/assistance, e-mail rr@sco.com or ...uunet!sco!rr

Ronald Record
UCSC/SCO
